//		RUNES 101		//

Runes 101: Here are the best of the runes  for Support Zilean (as well as most of the rune choices for most supports). The rune set I most commonly use for Support Zilean is :

:

The reason I like the extra mana regen is that it makes it easier to converve mana for his combos. The 
3 mana per 5 seconds adds an extra 60 mana per minute, which is an extra bomb spell per minute. Zilean is incredibly mana intensive early in lane and his basic combo costs 155 mana (Rank 1 Q + W + Q) and up to 255 with an extra early E and late E. With that rune setup, you get one free Q every minute, and usually you stick around in lane for a good 4-5 minutes. 

Zilean's mana pool weak until you pick up an early tear, so every little bit of conserved mana helps. Having an extra Q+W+Q combo can save your life if you are going to be ganked.

So here's what some alternative rune choices, what's good, what's not so good.

REDS:

Good runes to use:

AD 		->	8.5
Armor	->	8.2

I really like the extra AD reds on my support rune pages because it gives a little extra oomph in lane where you don't have to be as reliant on landing combos to force out potions. AD also helps if you do have to last hit when your companion is gone and you're waiting for enough gold for a tear.

Armor reds are common for tankier supports or in lanes where you're expecting to trade often. With Zilean, I tend to stay away from armor reds just because I play aggressive in lane and try to punish enemies as much as possible. If you're newer, armor runes should be just fine.


OK runes:

Hybrid	->	8.1Armor/5.5MR
MPen	->	7.8

Of the two penetration runes, I tend to go with hybrid because I like to mix in auto attacks. If you do go with these runes, you're going to want to max Q to get the most of out the early game red runes. 

MReg	->	2.4

Mana regen reds aren't anywhere near as efficient as their yellow and blue counterparts, and I do not recommend using them. There offensive value that the red runes give should not be squandered mana regen.

YELLOWS:

HP		->	72
Armor	->	9

In most games as a support, you're either running armor yellows and HP quints, or HP yellows and armor quints. The overall cost efficiency for HP yellows is better than using armor yellows. However, since armor yellows are much cheaper and more available for most, those are a decent fallback.


Mreg		->	3.7

Mana regen yellows are actually the highest value for base regen of the three types of runes, but you sacrifice so much defensive stats I don't believe it's worth it. You're gimping yourself in lane because you will always have to be cautious for all-ins and are weaker in trading.

QUINTS:
Armor	->	13
HP		->	78

Armor quints have a higher value than HP quints. By taking Armor Quints and HP yellows, you gain an extra 4 armor at the cost of 6hp. Because of how scalar armor works, the extra 4 armor is worth more damage reduction than 6hp. Plus as you gain more levels, your armor increases as well at a much lower rate than HP, so you'd get even less value using HP quints over Armor quints.

AP		->	15

AP quints are solid for Midlane Zilean, but are not as good for Support Zilean. When I've run 15AP quints in lane, my bombs hit a little harder,  and by that I mean instead of dealing ~50 damage at rank 1, you deal ~70. That's a pretty solid deal, right? The downside is that it leads to a slippery slope of buying more AP items to keep scaling up the damage, versus going with more mana and cooldown reduction.

In my opinion, the power of Support Zilean doesn't come from overwhelming damage, but the insane utility from his ultimate, slows, and the stun (not so much the damage from the stun). Surviving lane is a much more reasonable approach to playing Support Zilean than crushing the lane. There are many tough matchups for Zilean in the bottom, and it's best to make it out of lane with fewer than 3 deaths.

BLUES:

Mreg		->	3.0

Since you've looked at the mana regen in the other two rune trees, here's where I choose to take them. In bottom lane, most of the damage that you're going to be taking is physical. Minion damage, auto attacks, ADC abilities. But more often then not, there are sources of AP damage that come from the support that you have to watch out for. For the most part, the AP damage is low enough that you don't have to make it a priority.

There are some exceptions to this, and I'll explain more in the MR section.

MR		->	12

Magic Resist blues are very common for other sets, so that's one reason to go with them. The base magic resist for most champions is 30 (as opposed to armor which can be as low as 14), so you have a better buffer thanks to base stats, which makes MR runes less needed in normal matchups.

Some of the more AP heavy "support" mages do strong AP damage early on (Brand, Vel'Koz, Karma, just to list a few) and every bit of MR helps stay in lane. Zilean has a tough time dealing with these heavy poke ranged AP mages, but the sustain from the Ancient Coin is usually enough to keep him well enough (as long as you are dodging skill shots).

AP		->	11

Flat AP is ok if you are planning on maxing Q and going for damage. Much like the quints, you're going to be missing out on something, but the impact is much less noticable when you take AP blues.

AP/L		->	27?

I do not like scaling runes on supports because it is very likely that you won't be reaching the efficency breakpoint until the mid-game, which means that you are gimping yourself in the early game. The way I play Support Zilean has many gimping mechanics to him (low damage, delayed sightstone, fragile levels 1-5) and there's no need to make life harder.

//	Mix of 6 and 3	//

Blue runes are also interesting because it is the most common type where you can mix two types of runes and still be fine.

6's
CDR		->	5%
CDR/L	->	10%
MReg	->	2
MR		->	8

Flat CDR is more common in the jungle, but the downside is that you only get 5%. On Support Zilean, it will make things awkward where there will be a 5% CDR gap. The problem is that there are no 5% CDR items in the game anymore, so you either sacrifice the possibility of 45% CDR or you go over the CDR cap and make the CDR runes useless.

Scaling CDR's are common among midlaners, since you'll likely hit 16-18 before the game ends. Supports don't have that luxury (although Zilean's passive puts his XP much higher than other supports). It's an alright choice, but you'll have to give up a CDR item like Talisman of Ascension or Banner of Command/Mikael's in order to stay under the CDR cap.

2 mana regen per 5 seconds allows you to take 4 magic resist. This diluting of MR and MReg works better for supports with fewer mana problems (Bard comes to mind), but I'd either stick w/ either all magic resist or all mana regen.

The 8Magic Resist is the most if you plan on mixing in only 1 mana per 5 seconds. 

The runesets for Support Zilean are similar to the runesets for most supports, but I like the extra mana regen for safety in lane.