Hey this is Bomb Rewind Bomb from Support Carry Zilean and today I'm here to talk about the state of Support Zilean after the support item rework from patch 7.9.

Tier Rating: B-

Support Zilean is one of weaker supports in the current meta. He has tough matchups against the popular AD carries and poke oriented supports (Lucian/Caitlyn/Xayah/Ezreal - Karma/Lulu).

As far as the mid and late game goes, Zilean is still strong, but that is mostly determined by YOUR skill on Zilean, by landing good ultimates and double bombs.

Starting Items

The Ancient Coin support line is no longer the best option for Zilean because competent opponents will zone you away from coins and punish the predictable movements. So it's best to go without it.

Instead, Spellthief's Edge is the go-to starting item. It encourages you to play more aggressively in lane and offers the highest gold acceleration of the three support items. It's best to ignore the progress on the quest item because it doesn't offer too much value when completed.

Laning

Zilean has always had a weak laning phase because he can be punished easily for running out of mana, having spells on cooldown, and being out of position.

A big playstyle adaptation that I've had great success with is landing single bombs for poke damage on the enemy AD Carry. The little bits of damage do add up and force your lane opponents to play more defensively, which makes it easier to get through lane.

You should hold off on Double Bombs unless it's to escape a death or if you have the enemy low enough to secure a kill.

When you are low on mana in lane, it gives your opponents much more liberty to zone you back or force an all-in. You can get around this by purchasing Tear of the Goddess on your first back.

Item Changes

Zilean has more flexibility in item decisions, and I no longer think that rushing Redemption is mandatory. Many items are situational and can be built in any order, depending on how your opponents are doing.

Tear -> Tear is an item I always buy on my first back. I feel it is even more important now because the support items offer very little mana regeneration. It is a very strong early and mid game investment that helps you poke more and cast more spells. This is a playstyle item and I recommend still buying Tear if you are more comfortable with it.

Redemption
Redemption is a fantastic teamfighting item that works well in longer, compact teamfights. It does have value in smaller skrimishes, but other items can be prioritized. If the game goes very long and you are groupfighting, then this item is a must.

Locket of the Iron Solari
This is the defensive counterpart to Redemption that works well in groupfights. The difference is that this one offers some good resistances. You want this against AoE heavy teams.

Mikael's Crucible
Mikaels is best used against teams with lots of crowd control. Generally, this is a must-buy item if you are against an Ashe

Zeke's Herald
This item is very strong with Crit-based ADCs and Zilean is one of the better supports who utilizes all of the stats from this item. I like buying this item for my ADC when we are ahead in lane and the ADC is ahead.

Ardent Censer
This item has fallen out of favor with Zilean because it takes too much of an investment to yield minor results. If you are playing with 2 or more Auto Attack based carries, this is an OK choice when you take the Stoneborn Pact mastery.

Banshee's Veil
The new and improved Banshee's Veil is a spectacular item for Zilean because it offers MR, a shield that blocks picks, cooldown reduction, and ability power. This item is a must buy if you are against pick compositions or heavy AP teams.

Masteries:

Thunderlords is overwhelmingly the best Keystone for Zilean at this time, so be sure to pick up the extra 5% cooldown reduction and the extra poke damage.

Stoneborn Pact Zilean is much harder to play because
